this video was made possible by
curiosity stream when you sign up at the
link in the description you'll also get
access to nebula the streaming video
platform that h AI is a part of this is
willem-alexander of the Netherlands he's
king of the seventeen point two million
bike riding windmill building strip
offal eating cog wearing people of the
Netherlands in addition to the three
hundred thousand people the Dutch
Caribbean islands of Bonaire st.
Eustatius Saba Aruba curaçao and st.
Maarten now despite the fact that barely
anyone outside the country even knows
the netherlands as a monarchy the king
is a pretty important job Willem
Alexander is the head of state and as
far-reaching powers in two different
branches of the Dutch government in
practice though sort of like the Queen
of the UK he largely stays out of
politics you see the monarchy of the
Netherlands is pretty low-key in his
youth Willem Alexander was known in the
media as Prince pills
that's pills with one owl in reference
to his affinity for pilsner beer in
addition to other large quantities of
alcohol consumed during his time at the
University of Leiden eventually though
he graduated and got interested in the
best beverage of all water seriously
everything you read on him mentions his
keen interest in water management which
sounds like an innuendo for bladder
control but it's actually not eventually
though in 2013 his mom quit her job and
thanks to nepotism he of course walked
his way into the exact same position
they even threw this big party for him
on his first day nel King
willem-alexander is known for his casual
style of marque he never wears his crown
nobody calls him his majesty his
daughters who are princesses go to
public school his his own Instagram
account and he even turns his throne
round and sits in it backwards in order
to seem cool and approachable to the
kids since long before his current job
though Willem Alexander has held another
job as an airline pilot you see back in
1985 slightly concerning Lee before
being kept principles he earned his
private pilot's license followed two
years later by his commercial pilot's
license he first used this to work as a
volunteer pilot for some organizations
in Kenya in addition to just
recreational flying he got his license
to fly multi-engine jet aircraft in 1989
his military pilot's license in 1994 and
in 2001 he got the crown jewel a pilot's
license
the airline transport pilot license
that's the license you need to fly big
boy airplanes with passenger in the back
and so soon after willem-alexander
started doing just that
now how or why exactly this arrangement
started is a bit unclear but sometime in
the early 2000s somehow then Prince
willem-alexander strutted over to KLM
and cashed in his I'm a prince card to
negotiate a deal to work for them as a
part-time pilot this made sense for two
reasons one was that KLM's full name
literally translates to royal aviation
company incorporated so having a little
royal in the company despite the fact
that it was then is now a fully private
company would keep it honest to its name
that way they wouldn't have to switch to
being called aviation company
Incorporated - was that KLM operated the
Dutch government airplane at the time it
was a falker 70 which would be used by
the Royals or politicians to go where
they needed to go and so once certified
willem-alexander would regularly fly
this airplane especially when it was the
Royals using it the hours of flying he
got from this government airplane alone
though weren't enough to maintain his
pilot's license so eventually he started
flying regular passenger flights - he
worked for KLM cityhopper the airline
subsidiary flying the Fokker 70 to
glamorous places all around the world
all around Europe all around North
Western Europe like Humberside
Darlington and Norwich nobody really
ever knew he was working as copilot for
these flights aside from the rest of the
crew and he would never introduce
himself by name when making
announcements and even in the airport he
was rarely recognized in his KLM uniform
he flew a few times a month all
throughout the 2000s and continued to do
so even after he became king in 2017
though he ran into a bit of a problem
Calum was retiring all their Fokker
aircraft in favour of newer more
efficient Embraer jets and these
were the only aircraft that the king was
certified to fly commercially this was
an even bigger issue for the Dutch
government whose plane the Fokker 70
could no longer be operated by KLM as
they would no longer have pilots or
mechanics for the plane they therefore
made the decision to buy a Boeing 737
business jet which was better equipped
for longer trips which it turns out the
Dutch have to do a lot to catch up with
all the places they accidentally
colonized back in the day so Willem
Alexander made the decision to go
the long expensive process of getting
type rated for the 737 and once Don
started flying 737s for KLM this would
take him to much further flung
destinations all around Europe and
sometimes further well it was always a
sort of open secret to reveal this side
gig of his to the press in 2017 which
resulted in quite a lot of attention
well he apparently flies about twice
monthly his last confirmed sighting was
in late 2018 when he worked as a
co-pilot on a KLM flight to and from
Istanbul or as the cool kids call it
Constantinople speaking of which if you
want to learn more cool kid words it's
not called the Battle of Normandy it's
called Operation Overlord at least in
the Allies is codename system the
logistics of landing a fighting force
strong enough to take back year up on a
few French beaches were immense but
that's exactly what Brian from real
engineering snoo nebula original is
about the logistics of d-day this is
just one of many original series
available on nebula which is of course
the streaming sites built by myself and
plenty of other creators nebula is now
available for free when you sign up for
a subscription at curiosity streams the
streaming site home to thousands of top
quality documentaries nonfiction shows
and more curiosity stream has a long win
recognized as a top streaming site for
those who love learning and now the
addition of nebula with her subscription
makes it a fantastic deal by signing up
for a yearly subscription at curiosity
stream comm /h AI which is just $20 you
also get a free nebula subscription and
you'll also be doing your part in
supporting independent creators